= About the Showcase App =

Showcase apps demonstrate many features of Mobile Developer Services.

These mobile apps are ready to work with the mobile services, and present an easy starting point for the developers.

== Using the Showcase Apps ==

Showcase apps demonstrate many features of Mobile Developer Services. To see these features:

# Set up the appropriate services as described in [[#setting-up-mobile-services-to-demonstrate-showcase-apps|Setting up Mobile Services to Demonstrate Showcase Apps]].
# Set up the showcase app as described in [[#app|Setting Up the Showcase App]].
# Register your showcase app as described in [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/getting_started Registering a Mobile App].
# Bind your Mobile App to the appropriate services as described in [[#binding|Binding the Showcase Mobile App to Mobile Developer Services]]
# Copy the <code>mobile-services.json</code> file to your IDE as described in [[#downloading-the-mobile-services-configuration-file|Downloading the Mobile Services Configuration File]]
# Build and run your showcase app as described in [[#build|Building and Running the Showcase App]].

=== Setting up Mobile Services to Demonstrate Showcase Apps ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>To demonstrate Identity Management:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
<li><p>[https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_identity_management_mobile_service#configuring-the-service Set up the Identity Management service].</p></li>
<li><p>Create a new user to authenticate using the [https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-single-sign-on Identity Management documentation].</p></li>
<li><p>Set credentials for the created user. Follow the steps [https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-single-sign-on documentation].</p></li></ol>

<p>For more information about features, see [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_identity_management_mobile_service Identity Management Service]</p></li>
<li><p>To demonstrate Push Notifications, see [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_push_notifications_mobile_service Push Notifications Service]</p></li>
<li><p>To demonstrate Data Sync, perform the Data Sync solution pattern available from the Solution Explorer.</p></li></ol>

=== Setting Up the Showcase App ===

'''Prerequisites.'''

[[#setting-up-mobile-services-to-demonstrate-showcase-apps|Setting up Mobile Services to Demonstrate Showcase Apps]]

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Clone the showcase app and checkout the release tag 0.8.0</p>
<div class="informalexample">

<dl>
<dt>Ionic</dt>
<dd><source lang="bash">$ git clone https://github.com/aerogear/ionic-showcase.git
$ cd ionic-showcase
$ git checkout0.8.0</source></dd></dl>


</div></li></ol>

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>The following steps will help you enable Push Notifications in a showcase application.</p>
<div class="informalexample">

<dl>
<dt>Ionic</dt>
<dd><ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>You will need to create a project on [https://firebase.google.com/ Firebase].</p></li>
<li><p>Follow steps outlined [https://support.google.com/firebase/answer/7015592?hl=en here] to download <code>google-services.json</code> from your Firebase project.</p></li>
<li><p>Overwrite the file <code>app/google-services.json</code> with the <code>google-services.json</code> file you downloaded from Firebase Cloud Messaging console.</p></li></ol>
</dd></dl>


</div></li></ol>

=== Binding the Showcase Mobile App to Mobile Developer Services ===

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>[https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_identity_management_mobile_service#binding-a-mobile-client-with-the-identity-management-service Bind the Mobile App to the Identity Management service] if you want to demonstrate authentication.</p></li>
<li><p>[https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_push_notifications_mobile_service#binding-a-mobile-client-with-the-push-notifications-service Bind the Mobile App to the Push Notifications service] if you want to demonstrate Push Notifications.</p>
<blockquote><p>'''Note'''</p>
<p>This step also creates a variant as described in [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_push_notifications_mobile_service Push Notifications Service] terminology.</p></blockquote></li>
<li><p>[https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/developing_a_data_sync_app#sync-server-binding Bind the Mobile App to the Data Sync app] if you want to demonstrate Data Sync.</p></li></ol>

== Downloading the Mobile Services Configuration File ==

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><p>Open your Mobile App in Mobile Developer Console.</p></li>
<li><p>Copy the <code>mobile-services.json</code> configuration to your clipboard. Save the contents of the clipboard to a new file called <code>mobile-services.json</code>.</p>
<blockquote><p>'''Note'''</p>
<p>The mobile-services.json file is the link between the mobile services running on OpenShift and the mobile app you are developing. The mobile-services.json file provides all required configuration to initialise the various SDKs and connect them to the back-end services.</p></blockquote></li>
<li><p>Copy the contents of the <code>mobile-services.json</code> file into the <code>mobile-services.json</code> file located in <code>src</code>.</p></li></ol>

=== Building and Running the Showcase App ===

# Build the Mobile App

<div class="informalexample">

<dl>
<dt>Ionic</dt>
<dd><source lang="bash">$ npm install
$ npm run ionic:build</source></dd></dl>


</div>
# Run the Mobile App

<div class="informalexample">

<dl>
<dt>Ionic</dt>
<dd><p>To run the showcase app, use these commands:</p>
<source lang="bash">$ npm run ionic:android # to run on an Android device or emulator
$ npm run ionic:ios # to run on an iOS device or emulator</source>
<p>These commands would run the app on a device if connected or on the emulator if no device is connected.</p>
<p>Alternatively, you can use Cordova commands directly to specify the target:</p>
<source lang="bash">$ ionic cordova run android --device      # run on a connected device
$ ionic cordova run android --emulator    # run on the Android emulator</source></dd></dl>


</div>
= Demonstrating the ShowCase App features =

== Identity Management ==

'''Prerequisite.'''

Make sure you have created a user and set up credentials for that user as describe in the [https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-single-sign-on Red Hat Single Sign-On Documentation].

From the showcase app:

<div class="informalexample">

; Ionic
: ;# To log in, click the '''Login''' button.
;# A login page is displayed, enter your credentials.
;# Once the login is successful, navigate to '''User Profile''' page and see the roles and basic information about the user.


</div>
== Data Sync ==

<blockquote>'''Note'''

This is only available in the Cordova showcase app.
</blockquote>
<blockquote>'''Note'''

To demonstrate all the features that Data Sync offers, it’s best to run the same app on multiple devices at the same time.
</blockquote>
From the showcase app:

# Press the '''Manage Tasks''' menu item.
# View tasks created by other people and try to edit them. See them changed on other devices.
# Create new tasks and see them show up on other devices.
# Bring the device offline by switching to '''Airplane Mode''', create a few more tasks and edit a few existing tasks. Then switch the device back online and see them changed on other devices.

== Security Services ==

=== Device Checks ===

Device Trust page will check the mobile device for and give a security rating for the device based on the following checks

* Debugger Detected
* Root Access Detected
* Emulator Access Detected
* No Device Lock Enabled

To use Device Trust in the showcase app:

# Press the '''Security''' menu item.
# From the drop down press '''Device Trust'''.
# View the results of the Device security checks.

=== Mobile Security Service ===

Application Trust allows you to connect to the Mobile Security Service and that allows you to enable or disable a mobile app from the Mobile Security console.

To use Application Trust in the showcase app:

# Press the '''Security''' menu item.
# From the drop down press '''Application Trust'''.
# Navigate to the Mobile Security Service link to set the enable/disable message as described in link:Mobile Security#monitoring[Using the App Security Console].
# Press the '''CHECK THE SECURITY SERVICE''' button to check the message from the service.

== Push Notifications ==

# Send a push notification as described in [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/mobile_services/1/html/using_the_push_notifications_mobile_service#sending Sending a Push Notification]
# Launch the showcase app and view the notification.

